Welcome everyone to part seven of the social club project what we're not going to do is focus on the
group's application by creating the views for the group templates and then connecting the template files
to those views using the or stop high file for group applications.
All right.
Let's hop over to the Adam text editor and get started.
All right so by now I should already have your model's not pi file filled out for the group's application.
Now we're going to open up views up PI under groups and start filling out some very basic views for
our actual group's application.
And we're going to do is couple of things first.
A couple of imports I will say from Django contrib.
Th for authorization mix ins and then ongoing to import.
And I will import two mixes here the loggin required to mix in and then the permission required mixin.
And if you want you can put these on multiple lines just by having parentheses.
So something that's common to see is if you have really long import lines you can just use multiple
lines with a print CS there and then.
Well we're also going to do is a bunch of other imports we will say from Django core that you're all
resolvers import reverse and then I will also say from Django views import and then I'm going to import
those generic views and that's just the class based views that we've worked with before.
OK let's get started.
I'm going to say class and I will have a create group view.
So if someone is logged into the site and they want to create their own group kind of like creating
your own subset this will be the view for that.
And it's going to take and the logging required mixin and it will also take in the create view and then
here I just need to specify the fields I want them to be able to create.
So we say field is equal to and I want them to be able to edit the name of the field or the name of
the group.
I should say and then the description and those are just directly linked to the model slot pi.
So the name and the description I don't want them to be able to edit things like Slogger members because
that really wouldn't make sense.
So when they create a group it takes a generic view and then finally I just need to connect it to the
actual model.
So if I'm going to connect it to the group model that means I need to import it.
So we'll say from groups or models and you can also say from that models import group and then group
member that way you can call them throughout these class based views.
So right now we have a very basic create view.
So to actually connect this to a template we're going to need to later on our template underneath groups
as well as are you're also not profile but let's continue on to create a detail view and a list view
and then we'll actually mess around with those template files.
So I will say class and let's just say single group and this is just going to be a generic detail view.
So it's just the details of that specific group things like the post inside that group etc..
And that's just going to be connected to a model called group.
So pretty simple.
And then we'll have a list groups.
So when someone goes to like the list groups page to see a list of all the available groups kind of
like selecting a list all subsets or something like that and then we'll say generic and that will be
a list view and you can see already that class based views making our lives a lot simpler.
And then we'll say models equal to group.
So I'm going to say that looks like we have three main class based views.
Now let's head over to the templates and actually create those template files that connect them.
We already have group base group detail group form and group list.
So we should be pretty good to go.
Let's start off by saying group base and in the group base that each team T.M. I'm going to say extends
from base thought HVM L and then I'm going to call block content.
So that's going to extend from the actual baseline each team M-file that have already created underneath
the project templates.
And then I have my content here and I'm going to create a div container class and then I will say div
class row K.S. need that for bootstrap purposes.
And then I'm going to make three blocks here.
I have a pretty group block a group content block and then a post group block that we'll see how we
can use later on.
So this block I will say is group we can actually just put it like this.
It's a little more readable than in a copy and paste this.
And then we will have a block that is the group contents group underscore content and then the post
group.
So we won't use all of these blocks in every template but in case we ever want to have something that
goes before the group content we have group during the group content we have group content and then
after that group content we have post group.
OK.
So that's always I will say that.
And then we're going to continue on with the other templates so lets start off with the group detail
page that will come over as a group detail that very next template and I will say extends from groups
forward slash group underscore based to h tim L that H team all we were just working with and then let's
put everything we want to occur before the group name.
So I will call block and this will be my Prete group block and then a heading one I'm going to have
the group name and I can call that using template syntax by saying group that name.
So remember with those class based views there is actually a context dictionary that gets passed that
holds everything that the model has.
So since groups have names I can just call group name and this word group is the lowercase singular
version of the actual models become models of Pi.
This is the lower case model.
G r o u p which is where that actual context dictionary comes from.
And that just as we've told you before comes from class based views then heading to.
I'm going to say member count and hearing and input another basically call to the context dictionary
and enjoy group members so again come back to the model.
Remember we have members here an offer that I'm actually going to call a method and I can call the count
method or attribute off of that.
And if you want a list of these you can check the documentation for various things you can call off
of model objects.
All right now the next step for the sexual group detail page is on that group detail page where it's
actually listing the posts.
If you're a member and you're logged in I want you to have a leave or join button there.
So let's try to add that in.
Inside this same Prigg group block I'm going to create div and I will call this content in case I ever
want to edit this FC the SS and inside of this I'm going to say if and I will say if user in group members
all so that means if this user happens to be inside this essentially an array or list of all the members
inside that actual group model then I'm going to do the following.
I'll have an anchor tag that has an H ref to your L and then groups leave.
So we haven't actually created this view or Uriel's yet but later on in our Urals file for the actual
groups we're going to be able to have the option to leave the group.
So we only want that if the user is already in the group so we'll say OK the users are already in a
group and visit to this page.
They have the option to leave and they're going to be able to leave.
We also have to define what slug.
And that's just going to be equal to group thought slug.
Now we'll kind of edit this later on.
But let's actually make sure to see your template with those percent signs and then inside of this we're
going to go ahead and give this a class to all say class when collapses.
We get a little more room here.
Class is equal to.
We'll just have this be a normal button say between Actually let's make it a really large button.
So it's kind of obvious I can start this on a new line.
So it will say class Button but say button.
LG for a large button.
Fill out this button and then let's make it a warning button so it's like really obvious to the user
that if they click that button they're going to leave.
OK.
And then we're also going to do is add in a span so we're going to use Cliffie icons or glyph icons
and this will allow me to actually have an icon there instead of just like a word that says Leave group.
So it's going to look like an exit sign or something.
So we'll have it be a remove circle and that will be right next to the word leave.
So we do this by creating a span and then inside that span we create a class and that class is going
to be a glyph icon and then it's glyph icon dash remove dash circle and you can technically not really
have the span.
Just kind of an icon I want to put in there.
You can check out the bootstrap documentation for all these codes and all the different icons they have
available.
And then I'm going to say leave OK.
So we have this button that shows up if a group if a member is already in that group and then they can
click on that button and they'll leave the group so that if that user is already in the group else we
should probably give them the option to join the group.
So we'll say.
Else.
And it's going to be a really similar thing we'll have h.
And then let's just copy this because it's so similar.
So I'm going to copy this entire anchor tag and then post it here.
And then inside this anchor tag let's change what we want so else you're not going to leave it.
And we know they're going to join it.
So we'll make another view later on for Euro groups join.
Same thing is going to be the slug and we can have the same thing as a button a warning you can change
if you want but a warning or default et cetera for coloring.
We will have instead of a remove circle I'm going to say OK circle and then we will say and sort of
leave.
All right.
Again basic idea.
We check that user who's currently visiting this page is in a group that members are all and then whether
or not they're going to leave or join.
All right now we're actually almost done with group detail that reached him L and then scroll down past
this block and then I will start a new block and this is just going to be my group content here.
And then what we will do is I don't want the group content that is the list of actual posts to take
up the entire page.
I kind of want them lined up a little bit.
So what I'm going to do is say give class and I'll get this a class of call medium Dash 8.
Those are those bootstrap formations and then we'll say if I'm going to say if group that postop count
is equal to zero.
And that basically means if the group doesn't actually have any posts in it yet what I will say is instead
of listing something I'm just going to have a hit or two that says no post in this group yet let's make
sure we spell it right.
So no post in this group yet.
And then if we don't have else actually let's say else else what else are going to do.
We're going to say for four post in group posts all and then I'm going to just cycle through this.
But when I'm going to do is say include and then we'll say posts forward slash underscore post-time
h tim L and let me describe since we haven't really seen include yet what's going on there and other
than that we're actually done with this page so it will take a little bit of time to kind of do a little
description of 13:1.
So all I'm doing here is I'm saying if the group currently has no post just have a heading to that says
no post in this group yet.
But the more likely situation where we actually already have posts in that groups.
What I want to do is save for posts in groups of posts that all.
And then I'm going to include now include is kind of a way of saying extends except you're going to
essentially insert it right in the middle of an each team I'll file.
So instead of actually extending and using blocks we can do is use the Include statement to inject in
each team Al file.
Sister is going to be so much stuff going off the posts themselves.
A lot of HVM calls a lot of template calls I template tags.
I don't want to include all of that in this group detail that is T.M..
Instead what I will do is have that all taken care of in this post.
A steam elf file.
And since this is going to be injected to kind of signify that as a developer I had this underscore
there.
Now I technically don't need that underscore there.
It's really more for me to understand that this particular piece of each team file is designed to be
injected into other each team of files using include.
So that's the kind of syntax that I'm going to be using to actually understand that.
So that's it for the group detail page and we're going to do is finish off those other class based views
that we just created.
So we'll come back up here the next one we're going to do is the group list page so that should be pretty
straightforward.
Let's go to group list.
Click on that and this is going to extend from groups slash group underscore based h Timo.
Let's collapse that directory tree again and then I'm going to call a block for my pre content's or
group content than hear what I will say is give this a class of call medium for a lot of these class
calls and you can adjust them yourself.
This is more for styling.
And then we will say contents and what I want to do is check if a user is logged in and they're authenticated.
I want to say a welcome back username and if not it's going to just say hey welcome to the group's page.
Select the group.
So let's try that out.
We'll see if the user is underscore authenticated and I can use all these user template calls because
of the Django authorization package basically takes care of all the heavy lifting to connect this on
the backend so you can just say user that is authenticated and what I will do if they're authenticated.
I'll have a heading to you on the web page it says Welcome back.
And inside of this heading to I'm also going to have an anchor Ted and it's going to link to their actual
profile.
So I'll say you are el and pose for underscore user so that it actually links to their profile where
it has a list of all their posts in case they ever want to see that.
And then I also need to provide their username.
So say a user name as equal to user dot whoops user thought user name and then inside of here and the
actual anchor tag wasn't going to do is say at end with template tags.
I need to inject this double say at user the user name so that basically has that kind of Twitter quality
or basically any social network quality where it is user and authenticated.
I'll say welcome back.
There'll be a link here that says at user that username and if you click on that link it will take you
to a list of all your posts.
Now we're going to take care of that view later on when we're dealing with posts now.
And if so for everyone though it will show the falling ill say groups heading to.
And then I'll have a paragraph here it says Welcome to the group's page.
Exclamation point.
Save that and then the other thing I want to do is check that if a user is authenticated I should be
able to kind of have a button that says Create newgroup.
So we'll do that as well.
We'll say if outside of this first attack if the user is underscore authenticated it will have an anchor
tag here are again the anchor tag is linked to your el groups underscore creates.
And there's a couple of ways you could have done this.
You don't have to do exactly the same way I'm doing it but I'm going to do it for a simple button call
between PTEN dash and the between dash will be 10 dash warning.
Now remember from the navigation bar technically the user can already create a group from any page.
There's a little link in the navigation but since you're on the group's page it might be nice to actually
have it as a separate button as well on the actual group page.
So that's why I'm adding this in.
And then we will go ahead and add a span and use those glyph icons so in the span I will give it the
class glyph.
Let me make sure I spell that right Cliff icon glyph icon.
I'm in trouble with this glyph icon dash plus dash sign.
It looks like a little plus sign and we'll just have the text right next it.
Create new group and then we need to end that if.
All right.
So that's it for that at the very top of the page.
And so that will end the group block.
So it just checks.
Welcome back.
And then says welcome to girls page has a little button there if you're authenticated to create a new
group.
Next we're going to do the actual group or content so we'll say have a new block group content and then
couldn't give this one more division we'll say should be call dash media Dash 8.
So this can take up everything and then we'll say div class I'll say list group in case we ever want
to.
This will see SS and now I'm going to have a for loop.
So I'm going to say for group an object underscore list.
And we'll talk about this object in your score list later on.
So for group an object list and have an anchor tag and we'll give this you or I'll call.
We'll say you're all groups single where the slug is equal to the group thoughts slug itself and I'm
going to have this actually have a class will say this class will be list group item in case I ever
want to add it or call it.
And then let's kind of start this rest this anchor tag on a new line.
And that is going to have let's say inside this anchor tag will have a heading three with a class of
its own.
And this class will say tidal list group item heading.
So in case you ever want to edit that three you can do it in the SS and then I will say the group actual
name.
So that's the heading three and what is actually going on here is kind of briefly describe it.
So so far I have for every group in my object list which is essentially going to be a list of the actual
groups remember this is the group list.
Each team L.
And we're going to have an anchor tag that so far has a link to the group names.
If you click on the group name Ill take it to the groups single page through this slug connection but
there's still more I want to add here.
I'm going to inside of the same anchor to create a div class and will say list group item I'm going
to call it text and then say container fluids.
That's a bootstrap a container called and then here is where I'm finally going to use that description.
So I'll say it description underscore HVM L and then a pipe OPERATOR I'll say safe.
So that allows me if you remember from the previous clone project that allows me to actually use the
HTL code in a safe way so that if something is bold you actually see bold text instead of seeing bold
template tags or bold HTL tags.
Now what we want to do is right after this we're going to call another div and this is just going to
be a row and I know there's a lot to type here.
So if you want to just copy and paste this from the actual solution so you don't make any type of thing
where it's really easy to make a typo here and I'm sure I'm making one right now which we're going to
fix later and we'll create one more that says call medium for and we'll create a span and we will say
this is a class and we'll get this a batch class and then we're going to do here is inside the span.
I'll have group members counts and then inside of that I'm going to say
member
member and I will say group members count pluralize and later on we'll actually see what this does pluralize
SRU I don't actually spell it wrong OK that's the end of this particular div and then we're going to
start one more inside of the object suite div.
And this is also going to be call M.D for in here again.
Basically have the same thing span with the classes equal to badge.
And then we'll call it group post counts and then outside of this we will have post template tagging.
I'm going to inject group post counts and then we will call pluralize on that as well.
OK.
So a ton of div tags here and I promise we'll go over all this at the very end.
But now we're going to do is basically scroll down and this make sure everything's lined up and we should
have two div tags after the end four and then an anchor and three more tags before that and everything
else should be lining up so if you don't have that you probably made a typo somewhere suggest a copy
and paste from the solution.
That's a lot easier than typing along with me.
But let's actually go through this grouplets patients.
There's a lot going on here.
First off group all we're doing is checking these authenticated if they are we have a little thing that
says welcome back at whoever the user is and it links to that user's post.
So you log in you go to the groups page says welcome back Jose.
Click on that.
Then it takes a list of all jose's posts.
Then it says END-IF.
Now everybody would say welcome to the group page.
We check.
OK if is authenticated let's add a little button there so they can create a new group.
There's also one of the navigation bar.
But we should have one here as well.
That's the end of the group block.
Now it's the much more complicated group content block but it's actually not so bad.
Basically what we're doing is we're saying OK for every group in this object list which is going to
be a list of all the group objects we're going to have.
And essentially you can kind of ignore these class calls or just CSSA and focus on what's really going
on here.
So here we're going say group name.
And you can click on that group name and will take you to the single group page for that group detail
page so we just created earlier and then the actual description we call a description underscore each
hymnal and we call it safe that way and caster's any bold tags or it's hallux tags whatever they happen
to be displayed correctly.
And then we have these group members accounts and group post count.
So on the actual page where it details the groups that are available it will say how many posts that
group has and how many members that group has as well.
That's basically all that's going on here.
It's just the large amount of div class calls that kind of make it hard to read.
But essentially it's just a pretty simple for loop.
That's the splaying the group name.
The number of members in that group and the number of posts that group.
Then when you click the group name it will take you to that actual group detail page.
That's all that's going on in groups list.
Now finally what I want to fill out is let's say someone does click on Create a new group they're going
to go to groups create and that's going to be created by that create view.
So let's come over here and set that up with group underscore forum.
So in this page I'm going to say extends groups slash group underscore based T.M. and then I'm also
going to remember this is a form so I will load up bootstrap 3 to make the form look nice.
Then we'll have block and then it will say group underscore content and here doesn't really matter what
heading size you use.
I'm just going to say create a new group and then we'll create a form here will say form loops for form
and this form will have a class but it will have an action and the action will link back to
your L groups underscore create.
So basically linking to art create view and then we'll give this post method and will actually also
give it an ID in case we ever want to edit it.
S. SS Now I will say group form spicket group form of camel casing just so I know and inside of here
since it's a forum we always need our CSR token.
And then below that we're going to have the forum call.
So if template whip's with template tagging will call bootstrap form as we saw before bootstrap underscore
form in the past in the form.
So this makes it look a lot nicer when using bootstrap 3.
Which again you have Pipp install finally will have an input block and that will just be type submit.
It'll save value says create.
So it says create and then let's give this a class we don't need to give it a name globally between
PTEN primary and then BATNA large.
OK so definitely a lot of stuff here so let's quickly review.
We finished off all the templates for groups as well as most of the views so let's quickly review.
So what we did in this lecture was it came over to views that pie in the group's application.
And we created three main views for creating a new group for looking at a single group and then the
list groups and then we actually went to the templates and fill that out ourselves so the basic template
just has these three blocks.
What goes before the group.
What the actual group conta is.
And in the post group.
That way we can easily separate them than we actually have the detail page of a group which just shows
the group name.
The number of members in that group and then it actually says if the users in that group there's a leave
button if the user is not in that group there's a join button that we can't connect users to groups
themselves.
And here we just say OK if there's no post in the group just say no posts.
If there are post though we're just going to kind of inject this underscore postdates TMail content
that will work with later on in the future lecture then we actually went to the group list page which
was a little complicated but essentially just shows Welcome back through the user says Welcome to the
group page.
If the user is authenticated we have a little button that says you can create a new group and then here
we just actually list out every group with the link to the group and then the number of members and
the number of posts that group.
Finally for that create the we have group underscore forum or just create group and we have that forum
that we just created.
OK.
We're actually still not done with all the views for groups.
There's two more a little more complicated views.
We're gonna do the next lecture.
That's basically the views for joining a group and leaving a group so that's going to kind of require
a little bit more of a code to actually make those work.
Or if you have any questions feel free to post the Kewney forums.
Definitely that a lot here and we only type the lot so if you're stuck on something or something that
didn't seem quite right you can always just copy and paste from the provided notes.
Thanks everyone and I'll see at the next lecture.